# Ether Accounting

## Contract Balance

This security pitfall is related to the Ether balance of a smart contract and how that can change unexpectedly outside the assumptions made by the developer.

Remember that smart contracts can be created to begin with a specific Ether balance. Also there are also functions within the smart contract that can be specified as being payable, which means that they can receive Ether via message value. 

These two ways can be anticipated by the developer to change the Ether balance of the contract. But there are also other ways in which the Ether balance of the contract can change.

One such way is the use of `coinbase` transactions. These are the beneficiary addresses used in the block headers where the miner typically specifies the address to which the block rewards and all the transaction Gas fees should go to. That `coinbase` address could point to a specific smart contract where all the rewards, the Gas fees go to, if that block is successfully included in the blockchain.

The other unexpected way could be via the `selfdestruct` primitive where, if a particular smart contract is specified as the recipient address of `selfdestruct()`, then upon that executing the balance of the contract being destructed would be transferred to the specified recipient contract.

So these two ways the `coinbase` and `selfdestruct` although very unusual and unexpected could in theory change the Ether balance of any smart contract, this could be well outside the assumptions made by the developer or the team behind the smart contract.

So what this means is that, if the application logic implemented by a smart contract makes assumptions on the balance of Ether in this contract and how that can change, then those assumptions could become invalid because of these extreme situations in which it can be changed. So this is something to be paid attention to while analyzing the security for contract from the perspective of the Ether balance that it holds.

## `fallback` vs. `receive`

This security consideration is related to the use of `fallback` and `receive` functions within a smart contract. 

Remember from our discussion in the `Solidity` modules, there are differences between these two functions, there are some similarities. These are related to the visibility, the mutability and **the way that Ether transfers are handled by these two different functions**.

So from a security perspective, if these functions are used in a contract, then one should check that the assumptions are valid and if not, what are the implications thereof.

## Locked Ether

Locked Ether refers to the situation where the contract has an Ether balance that gets locked because Ether can be sent to that contract via `payable` functions, but there's no way for users to withdraw that Ether from that contract (the contract contains no functionality to withdraw Ether).

The obvious solutions are to remove the `payable` attributes from functions to prevent Ether from being deposited via them or adding withdrawal capabilities to the smart contract. The simple situations for this particular pitfall can be easily recognized and fixed. But also, there could be complex scenarios where the contract can be taken to a particular state (either accidentally or maliciously) where the Ether or the token balance of the contract gets locked and can't be withdrawn.