# Events

Events should be emitted within smart contracts for all critical operations. Emission of events that are missing for such critical operations is a security concern. 

The reason for this is because it affects off-chain monitoring remember that events emitted from smart contracts end up storing the parameters of such events in the log part of the blockchain. 

These logs either the topics part or the data part can be queried by off-chain monitoring tools or off-chain interfaces to understand what is happening in the smart contracts. This is an easier way to understand the state of the smart contracts without having to query the contracts themselves.

These events become very important from a transparency and user experience perspective. So the best practice is to recommend the addition of events in all places within the smart contracts where critical operations are happening, these could be updates to critical parameters from the smart contract applications perspective this could be operations that are being done only by the owner or privileged roles within the smart contract. So in all such cases events should be emitted to allow transparency and a better user experience.

## Event Parameters

Having talked about events, let's now focus on the event parameters. Event parameters not being indexed may be a concern in certain situations. 

Remember that event parameters may be considered as either indexed or not depending on the use of the `indexed` keyword. This results in those parameters being stored either in the topics part of the log or the data part of the log. Being stored in the topics part of the log allows for those parameters to be accessed or queried faster due to the use of the bloom filter. If they're stored in the data part, then it results in a much slower access.

There are certain parameters for certain events that are required to be indexed as per specifications. let's take the `ERC20` token standard for example: it has transfer and approval events that require some of their parameters to be indexed. 

Not doing it will result in the off-chain tools that are looking for such index events to be confused or thrown off track. 

So the best practice here is to add the `indexed` keyword to critical parameters in an event. Especially if the specification requires them to be in text, this comes at cost of some additional Gas usage, but allows for faster query.

## Event Signatures

The concern here was that of incorrect event signature in libraries. The reason for this happening was because, if events used in libraries had parameters of contract types, then because of a compiler bug, the actual contract name was used to generate the signature hash instead of using their address type.

This resulted in a wrong hash for such events being used in the logs. The mitigation here was to fix the compiler bug which happened in version `0.5.8` where the address type was used instead of using the contract name incorrectly.