# Visibility

Remember that functions in `Solidity` have the notion of visibility where they could be either `public`, `external`, `internal` or `private`, this affects which users can call these functions.

So `public` and `external` functions are callable by anyone depending on the access control that is enforced on top of that, whereas `internal` and `private` can be called only from within the contracts or the derived contracts.

Until `Solidity` version `0.5.0` this visibility specifier was optional and they defaulted to `public`. This aspect led to vulnerabilities where the developer forgot to mention or specify the visibility in which case it became public by default and resulted in malicious users being able to call these functions and make unauthorized state changes completely unexpected by the developer or the smart partner.

So this optional specification of function visibility defaulting to `public` visibility was removed as of `Solidity` version `0.5.2`, so this was a big change when it came to increasing the security of smart contracts and since that version function visibility is required to be specified explicitly for every function.

## Public Functions

Remember that `Solidity` has the notion of visibility for functions, there are four visibility specifiers: `internal`, `private`, `public` and `external`. `public` functions consume more Gas than `external` functions. 

The reason for this is because the arguments of `public` functions need to be copied from thecall data component of the EVM to the memory component. This copying produces more bytecode for such `public` functions which therefore consumes more Gas.

This copying is not required for `external` functions where their arguments can be left behind in the calldata component of the EVM. This key difference leads to `public` functions consuming more Gas than `external` functions in `Solidity`.

So if there are functions in the contract that are never called from within the contracts themselves, then such functions should be declared with `external` visibility and not `public` visibility, which leads to better Gas efficiency.