# Inheritance

Contracts that inherit from multiple contracts should be careful about the inheritance order because, if more than one such base contract defines an identical function, then the particular function implementation that gets included in the derived contract depends on this inheritance order.

The best practice is for this inheritance order to be from the more general implementation to the more specific implementation.

Another security pitfall related to inheritance is that of missing inheritance where a particular contract within an application might appear to inherit from another interface in that project or another abstract contract without actually doing so.

And it might appear, because of the contract name that is similar to the abstract contract or the interface name or also because of the functions that are defined within this contract their names the parameter types and, so on.

This appearance might give the notion that it is inheriting without actually inheriting. This affects not only the readability and maintainability aspects for the project team, but it also affects the auditability because the security reviewer might look at this contract and assume certain aspects, thinking that it's inheriting from the similarly named interface or abstract contract whereas in fact it does not do so.

So the best practice here, is to make sure that the inheritance is done appropriately and, if there are similarly named contracts where they do not actually inherit from each other, then the name should be changed. But if they are in fact meant to be inherited, then specifying that inheritance will help.