# Dead Code & Redundant Statements

## Dead Code

Dead Code is any contract code that is unused from the contract's perspective or even unreachable from a control flow perspective. 

This could be indicative of programmer error or missing logic that leads to the developer adding this code to the contract, but not adding the logic that actually makes use of this code. This is certainly an opportunity for optimization because dead code increases the code size of the contract which, during deployment, leads to increased Gas costs.

However, this also impacts readability, maintainability and auditability of the code, all of which affect security indirectly. Let's consider three scenarios in which dead code affects the security of smart contracts:

1. There is code in the contract that is in fact dead, but the developer or the smart contract auditor does not realize that this is dead code.

    ---

    If such code implements security checks, then we may assume that those checks are being enforced and improving the security, but in fact they are not effective because they are in dead code, so they reduce their security of the smart contracts again.

    ---

2. There is dead code in the smart contract and the developers are aware that this code is dead, but decide to leave it (without removing it).

    ---

    In such cases, such code may not be tested because the developers know that this is dead code and, because of this, they may end up with security vulnerabilities contained in them or they may contribute to such vulnerabilities.
    
    ---
    
    Later on, if someone else decides to use this dead code, the vulnerabilities contained by it (or affected by it) get manifested in the contract and affects the security negatively.

    ---

3. There is code that is actually used within the smart contracts, but the developers incorrectly determine that this is dead code (mistaken identity) and remove it.

    ---

    In such scenarios, if that code implemented security checks are actually improved security because of their logic, then removing it reduces the security of the code

Effectively, dead code contributes to the security of smart contracts indirectly in potentially significant ways. The best practice is for the developers to determine if a particular piece of code is used or dead and, if it is dead, determine if it actually needs to be used. If it is not, then remove it from the contracts. If it needs to be used, then add logic that uses that code in the correct manner.

## Redundant Statements

Redundant statements are statements that either have no side effects or that do have side effects, but are made redundant because there are other statements that have the same side effect. 

In either scenario these are indicative of programmer error or missing logic that needs to exist to make these statements not redundant, or they may just present an opportunity for optimization where these redundant statements need to be removed.

Removal reduces the size of the contract and therefore makes it more Gas efficient at deploy or execution time. 

The best practice here is to evaluate if statements are redundant and, if so, determine if they should indeed be having any side effects. If that's the case, add such side effects. If contrarily they are indeed redundant and do not affect the security in any way, then remove them. 

The impact of such redundant statements could be indirect to security because of the errors (the logic that we talked about) or they could be direct, where such redundant statements are actually meant to enforce certain security checks. Because they are redundant those checks never get executed and directly impact the security of the contract in a negative way.