# Modifiers

## Side-effects in Modifiers

Modifiers in `Solidity` smart contracts are typically used to implement different kinds of security checks (for example access control checks), or accounting checks on fund balances and so on. Such modifiers should not have any side-effects, they should not be making any state changes to the contract or external calls to other contracts.

The reason for that is any such side-effects made by the modifiers, may go unnoticed both by the developers as well as the smart contract security auditors evaluating the security of these contracts.

They go unnoticed not only because developers and auditors assume that modifiers don't make side-effects, but also because the modified code is typically declared in a different location from the function implementation itself. Remember that the best practice is for the modifiers to be declared in the beginning of the contract and function implementations in the later part of the contract. 

So as a security check, one should make sure that modifiers declared in contract should not have any side-effects and they should be only enforcing checks on different aspects of the contract.

## Incorrect Modifiers

Incorrect modifiers are a security risk. Modifiers should not only implement the correct access control or accounting checks as relevant to the smart contract logic, but they should also execute the code in "`_`" or revert along all the control flow paths within that modifier. Remember that in the context of `Solidity`, "`_`" inlines the function code on which the modifier is applied.

So, if this does not happen along any particular control flow path within the modifier, then the default value for that function is return. 

This may be unexpected from the context of the caller who called this function on which this modifier is applied, so the security check is to make sure that all the control flow paths within the modifier either execute "`_`" or revert.