# Testing, Unused and Redundant Code

## Testing
Software testing or validation is a fundamental software engineering practice that is a critical contributor to improved security. Testing validates whether the system implementation meets the requirements as detailed by the specification. Unit tests, functional tests, integration and end-to-end tests should have been performed to achieve good test coverage across the entire code base.

- Changes introduced with any revisions should be validated with regression tests.
- Smoke testing indicates at a high level if the functionality works or not.
- Stress testing validates extreme scenarios with borderline cases to check if those have been considered correctly.
- Performance and security specific testing validates those aspects respectively.

Any code or parameterization used specifically for testing should be removed from production code, which in smart contracts may apply differently to testnets vs. mainnet. Leaving test parameters or configurations behind may accidentally allow their usage resulting in unexpected maintenance behavior or serious vulnerabilities, so overall we need to ensure that sufficient levels of testing have been performed across all these different categories we just mentioned.

## Unused Code

Unused constructs may negatively impact security. This applies to any unused reports, inherited contracts, functions, parameters, variables, modifiers, events or return values; all of which should be removed or used appropriately after careful evaluation.

Removing will not only reduce Gas costs, but also improve readability and maintainability of the code. Unused constructs may also be indicative of missing logic that may be a security concern, if that logic were to have implemented security related functionality, so one needs to either remove or use such unused constructs.

## Redundant Code

Redundant constructs are also concerned. These are a kind of constructs that are not required either because there are equivalent constructs that implement the same functionality or because they are not relevant anymore. Such redundant code and comments can be confusing and should be removed or changed appropriately after careful evaluation.

Similar to unused constructs, removing redundant constructs will not only reduce Gas costs but also improve readability and maintainability of the code. If redundant constructs are indicative of missing or incorrect logic, then they may be a security concern, if such logic were to have implemented security related functionality. So one needs to either remove such redundant constructs or make them relevant by adding or changing the corresponding logic.