# Math and Logic

## Overflow/Underflow

This security pitfall is related to the notion of overflows and underflows in `Solidity` smart contracts. This is applicable to any integer arithmetic that is used within the contracts which is very often encountered. 

When such arithmetic is used in a way where the increments or decrements to those integer variables are done without checking for the bounds, then they could result in wrapped values where the value exceeds the maximum storage for that integer type and hence overflows or wraps to the lower end of that type or, If it's being decremented it could be decremented below zero in which case it results in wrapping to the maximum value of that integer type.

If those extremely high or extremely low data values resulting because of wrapping are invalid in the applications logic, then it is okay. But if it is not, if it's valid in the applications logic, then this could result in unexpected behavior in the best case or in the worst case it could result in some very serious vulnerabilities that can be exploited. We have seen multiple vulnerabilities and exploits led to overflow and underflow historically.

So the recommended best practice is to use the SafeMath libraries from OpenZeppelin that enforce the overflow and underflow checks during integer arithmetic or to use the latest `Solidity` versions greater than or equal to `0.8.0` that introduce check arithmetic by default.

## Dividing before Multiplying

Another security pitfall or best practice related to integer arithmetic is dividing before multiplying. `Solidity` integer division might truncate the value of results therefore, if division is done before multiplication, then this may result in the loss of precision of the values being computed.

So the recommended best practice is to always do the multiplication operations first followed by any division that is required.

## Strict Equalities

From a security perspective strict equalities are considered as dangerous in specific contexts of the smart content applications. 

Strict equality is referred to the "`==`" operator or the "`!=`" operator as compared to the less stricter "`<=`" or "`>=`" operators.

When these strict equalities are applied to Ether or token values, then such checks could fail because the transferred Ether or tokens could be slightly less or greater than what the strict equalities expect or the balances computed could be different because of the different number of decimals expected or the precision of the operations being slightly different from the assumptions being made. Hence the use of strict equalities with such operands and operations is considered dangerous because they could lead to failed checks.

**So the security best practice is to default to less stricter equalities and make sure that those constraints are satisfied as per the assumptions.**

## Tautologies & Contradictions

An interesting security consideration is that of tautologies and contradictions. A tautology is something that is always true whereas a contradiction is something that is always false.

Within smart contracts this can be found in certain primitives used, such as an unsigned integer variable `x` and then there is a predicate that checks, if `x` is greater than or equal to 0. This predicate because of `x` being an unsigned integer is a tautology it's always going to be true because `x` can't take a negative value.

The presence of such tautologies or contradictions in smart contracts indicates either flawed logic or mistaken assumptions made by the developer or these may just be redundant checks.

In either scenario these may be interesting from a security perspective, so it is something to be paid attention to and flagged as potential concerns.

## Boolean Constant

The use of boolean constants `true` or `false`, directly in conditionals is unnecessary.

The reason for this is that if there's a conditional whose predicate is true, then that can be removed because that code block would get executed nevertheless and similarly, if the predicate is the boolean constant `false`, then that could be removed as well and along with the code in that associated block because that code would never execute because the conditional is always going to be `false`.

So these usages of boolean constants specifically within conditionals is indicative of flawed logic or assumptions or they could just be used in a redundant manner. The recommendation upon identifying such usage, it is removing those constants and any code blocks associated with them, so that it becomes simpler to read and to maintain.

## Boolean Equality

An aspect related to boolean constants is that of boolean equality, this is where the boolean constants `true` or `false` are used within conditionals for an equality check, so the `x` variable is checked against the `true` constant.

This usage is redundant because the variable `x` can be used directly within the conditionals predicate without actually comparing it to `true` and both of them are equivalent.

So the use of the boolean constant `true` within the predicate is actually unnecessary, so while this may not be a big security consideration and perhaps indicative of the developer not fully understanding how `Solidity` booleans work. 

It is interesting from an optimization perspective and certainly improves the readability aspect of the code.