# Security Tools

Having discussed audit techniques at a high level, let's now talk a bit about the tooling that is used in this space. Smart contract security tools are critical in assisting both smart contract developers as well as auditors with detecting potentially exploitable vulnerabilities, highlighting dangerous programming styles or surfacing common patterns of misuse.

None of these however replace the need for manual review today to evaluate contract specific business logic and other complex control flow, data flow and value flow aspects, so these tools at best complement manual analysis today.

We can think of tools in the space under different categories such as tools for testing, test coverage linting, static analysis, symbolic checking, Fuzzing, formal verification and visualization disassemblers. Finally, there are also monitoring and incident response tools.

Let's now discuss some of the widely used tools in these categories. We will only dive into a few of them in some detail and only touch upon the others.

It is encouraged to explore these tools; installing them (most of them are open source and freely available), playing around with their options to understand how they work, how effective they are and how they would fit within the smart contract auditor toolbox.

## Slither

So let's start with Slither which is a static analysis tool from Trail of Bits and one of the most widely used tools in this space. Slither is a static analysis framework written in `python3` for analyzing smart contracts written in `Solidity`. It runs a suite of vulnerability detectors prints visual information about contact details.

Also provides an API to easily write custom analyses. This helps developers and auditors find vulnerabilities, enhance their code comprehension and also quickly prototype any custom analysis that they would like. It implements 75+ detectors in the publicly available free version

### Features

At a high level, Slither implements vulnerability detectors and contact information printers. It claims to have a low rate of false positives, the runtime is typically less than one second per contract and it is designed to integrate into CI/CD frameworks.

It implements built-in printers that quickly report crucial smart contract information and also supports a detector API to write custom analysis in `python3`. It uses an intermediate representation known as SlithIR which enables simple and high precision analysis.

### Detectors

As mentioned, Slither implements 75+ detectors, each of which detects a particular type of vulnerability. Slither can run on Truffle, Embark, Dapp, Etherlime or Hardhat applications, or on a single `Solidity` file. By default, Slither runs all its detectors.

To run only selected detectors from within its suite, there is a `detect` option to specify the names of detectors to run. Similarly, to exclude certain detectors, one can use the `exclude` option to specify the names of detectors to exclude. Two specific examples of detectors are `reentrancy-eth` and `unprotected-upgrade`. One can also exclude detectors based on the severity level associated with them.

So for example, to exclude all those detectors that are classified as informational or low severity one can use the `exclude informational` or `exclude low` options. On this tool, one can list all available detectors using the `list detectors` option, so it is encouraged to take a look at this tool, the various options and configurations that it supports.

### Printers

Besides the detectors, Slither has a concept of printers that allow printing different types of contract information using the print options. This helps in contract comprehension and gives us visibility into a lot of different aspects of the contract that's being analyzed. The various print options include things like the control flow graph. the call graph, the contract summary data, dependencies of variables, summary of the functions, inheritance relationships between contracts, modifiers, require and assert calls, and storage order of the state variables.

There are also many other details even from the Slither intermediate representation. At the EVM level, all these could be very helpful in quickly understanding the contract structure, getting a snapshot and zooming in on key aspects that are relevant from a security perspective.

### Upgradability

We've discussed in the security modules about how there are many security challenges with Proxy-based upgradability and a lot of them were inspired by checks implemented by Slither along with documentation from OpenZeppelin on this topic.

Slither has a specific tool called the Slither check upgradeability, which reviews contracts that use the delegateCall Proxy pattern to detect potential security issues with upgradability.

These include initialized state variables missing or extra state variables, different state variable ordering between the Proxy and implementation contracts or different versions of the implementation contracts itself. This also includes missing initialize function and initialize function that is present but that can be called multiple times because of the missing initializer modifier. Finally, function id collision and shadowing.

All these upgradeability aspects are conveniently packaged into a smaller tool which makes it very handy for checking that aspect.

### Code Similarity

Slither has a code similarity detector which can be used to detect similar `Solidity` functions, based on machine learning. It uses a pre-trained model using Etherscan verified contracts that is generated from more than 60000 smart contracts and more than 850000 functions. This can be a useful tool to detect vulnerabilities from code clones forks or copies.

### Flat

Slither also has a contract flattening tool which produces a flattened version of the codebase. It supports three strategies:

* Most derived: for exporting all the most derived contracts.
* One file: helps us export all the contracts in one standalone file.
* Local import: exports every contract in one separate file.

This tool handles circular dependency and also supports many compilation platforms such as Truffle, Hardhat, Etherlime and others.

### Format

Slither also has a formatting tool which automatically generates patches or fixes for a few of its detectors. Patches are compatible with `git`. The detectors supported with this tool are a `unused-state`, `solc-version`, `pragma`, `naming-convention`, `external-function`, `constable-states` and `constant-function`.

The patches generated by this tool should be carefully reviewed before applying them just so that you're comfortable with what those patches look like and there are no bugs in it.

### ERC Conformance

Slither has an ERC conformance tool called Slither check ERC which takes conformance for various ERC standards such as `ERC20`, `ERC721`, `ERC777`, `ERC165`, `ERC223` and `ERC1820`, some of which we have discussed in earlier chapters.

Examples of these checks are to see if functions are present, return the correct type, have `view` mutability if events are present emitted and parameters of such events are indexed as per the ERC specification. This is again handy for consolidating all ERC specific checks into one single tool.

### Prop

Finally, Slither also has a property generation tool called the Slither prop which generates code properties or invariants that can then be used for testing with unit tests or Echidna. The `ERC20` scenarios that can be tested with this tool are things like checking for correct transfer, the possible functionality or that no one can incorrectly mint or burn tokens.

### New Detectors

Besides the various detectors, printers and tools of Slither that we just discussed, Slither also supports an extensible architecture that allows one to integrate new detectors into the tool.

The skeleton for such a detector implementation has things like arguments, help, impact, confidence, link to the wiki for that detector and a placeholder for the most important part of the detector logic itself. This extensible architecture can help with creating application specific detectors and also enables the community to contribute new detectors to the Slither codebase.

Those are all the Slither features that we're going to cover here and as we see it is an extensive tool with support for 75+ detectors and multiple other helpful features as well. For those reasons, it is a widely referenced and used tool across projects in the space.

## Manticore

Let's now move on to another tool from Trail of Bits called Manticore which is a symbolic execution tool. This again helps with analysis of Ethereum smart contracts. Manticore can execute a program with symbolic inputs and explore all possible states it can reach. It can automatically produce concrete inputs that result in any desirable program state, it can detect crashes and other failures in smart contracts and provide instrumentation capabilities.

Finally, a programmatic interface to its analysis engine via `python` API similar to Slyther.

## Echidna

Another tool from Trail of Bits is Echidna, which is a Fuzzing tool and complements Slither and Manticore. This tool is written in haskell and it performs grammar based Fuzzing campaigns based on a contracts' ABI to falsify user defined predicates or even `Solidity` assertions in the smart contract code.

### Features

Echidna has many notable features:

* it generates inputs tailored to the actual code.
* has an optional corpus collection of predefined campaigns.
* it supports mutations and coverage guidance for deeper bugs.
* it can be powered by the Slither prop tool to extract useful information before the Fuzzing campaign.
* it has source code integration to help identify which lines are covered after the Fuzzing campaign.
* it has support for multiple user interfaces.
* it has automatic test case minimization for quick triage.
* it has seamless integration into the development workflow.

### Usage

As for Echidna's usage, it is recommended looking up Echidna's documentation and available tutorials on Trail of Bits' website for such details.

At a high level, the usage involves three aspects:

1.  Executing the test runner where the core Echidna functionality is part of an executable called echidnatest that takes a contract and a list of invariants as inputs.\


    For each invariant, it generates random call sequences to the contract and checks if the invariant holds, if it can find some way to falsify the invariant and it prints the call sequence that does so. These are typically referred to as counter examples in this terminology.\


    If it can't find counter examples, then we have some assurance that the contract is safe with respect to that invariant.
2. Writing invariants, which are expressed as `Solidity` functions with names that begin with "`echidna_`". They have no arguments and return a boolean.
3. Collecting and visualizing coverage after finishing the Fuzzing campaign, as Echidna can save the coverage maximizing corpus in a special directory which will contain two entries: a directory with JSON files that can be replayed by Echidna later, and a plain text file that contains a copy of the source code with coverage annotations.

## Eth Security Toolbox

Trail of Bits has combined the three tools we just discussed into a tools package which is a Docker container called Eth Security Toolbox where they are pre-installed and pre-configured. This makes it very handy and very easy to start off with using these tools. Besides these three, it also has Rattle and Ethno tools which we will touch upon later.

## Ethersplay

Ethersplay is a Binary Ninja plugin from Trail of Bits that enables an EVM disassembler and related analysis tools. For those who aren't aware, Binary Ninja is a widely used extensible reverse engineering platform which can disassemble a binary and display it in various ways, so Ethersplay effectively extends that to work with EVM bytecode: this takes EVM byte code in raw library format as input and generates a control flow graph of all functions. It can also be used to display Manticore's coverage.

## Pyevmasm

Pyevmasm is another security tool from Trail of Bits which provides an assembler and disassembler library for the EVM. This includes a command line utility for doing the assembling and disassembling and also includes a python API for extensibility.

## Rattle

Rattle is another security tool from Trail of Bits. It is an EVM binary static analysis framework that is designed to work with deployed smart contracts. It takes EVM byte strings as inputs and uses a flow sensitive analysis to recover the control flow graph.

In static analysis terminology, flow sensitive refers to an analysis that considers the control flow of statements. Similarly, there is context sensitive and path sensitive analysis as well. Rattle further converts the control flow graph into a single static assignment (SSA) form with infinite registers and optimizes this SSA by removing stacked instructions of dups, swaps, pushes and pops (remember that EVM is a stack based machine and there are typically many such stacked instructions in the bytecode as operands are pushed onto the stack and results are popped).

Rattle, by converting the byte code instructions from a stack machine to SSA form removes more than 60% of all EVM instructions. Because of that, it presents a user-friendly interface for analyzing smart contract bytecode.

For anyone interested in programming language analysis, it is encouraged to look up these concepts of (SSA and sensitivity analysis).

## EVM CFG Builder

EVM CFG builder is another tool from Trail of Bits that is used to extract the control flow graph (CFG) from EVM bytecode. It also recovers function names and their attributes such as `payable`, `view`, `pure`, etc... It outputs the CFG to a DOT file. This EVM CFG builder tool is used by Ethersplay, Manticore and some other tools from Trail of Bits.

## Crytic Compile

Crytic compile is another tool from Trail of Bits. It is a smart contract compilation library that is used in the security tools from Trail of Bits. It supports Truffle, Embark, Etherscan, Brownie, Waffle, Hardhat and other development environments.

## Solc-Select

Solc-select is a security helper tool from Trail of Bits. It is a script that is used to quickly switch between different `Solidity` compiler versions. It manages installing and setting different salc compiler versions using a wrapper around salc which picks the right version according to what was said via solc-select. The solc binaries are downloaded from the official `Solidity` language repository.

This tool is very helpful while analyzing different smart contact projects because there is often a need to switch between different `Solidity` compiler versions depending on which version is being used by the project that is being analyzed. So this tool is very handy in such situations and helps us work with other security tools that depend on the `Solidity` compiler version.

## Etheno

Etheno is a testing tool referred to as the Ethereum testing Swiss Army knife, again from Trail of Bits. It's a JSON RPC multiplexer analysis tool wrapper and test integration tool, all bundled into one for multiplexing.

It runs a JSON RPC server that can multiplex calls to one or more Ethereum clients with an API for modifying such JSON RPC calls. It enables differential testing by sending JSON RPC sequences to multiple Ethereum clients and further helps with the deployment and interaction with multiple networks at the same time.

For the analysis tool wrapping part, it provides a JSON RPC client for advanced analysis tools such as Maticore, which makes it much easier to work with such tools because there is now no need for custom scripts for them.

For what it concerns integration with test frameworks such as Ganache and Truffle, it helps run a local test network with a single command and enables the use of Truffle migrations to bootstrap Manticore analysis. So for all these reasons, it is referred to as the Swiss Army knife for Ethereum testing.

## MythX

Now moving on to tools from ConsenSys Diligence, MythX may be considered as their flagship tool. MythX is a powerful security analysis service that finds vulnerabilities in Ethereum smart contact code during the development lifecycle. It is a paid API based service that uses several tools in the backend, these include Maru (a static analyzer), Mythril (a symbolic analyzer) and Harvey (a gray box fuzzer). In combination among these three tools, MythX implements a total of 46+ detectors. While Maru and Harvey are closed source as of now, Mythril is open source. We'll talk more about different aspects of MythX in the forthcoming sections.

### Process

So how does the MythX process work? Remember that MythX is an API based service, so it does not run locally on the user's machines, but it runs in the cloud.

So the first step is for the project to submit the code to the MythX service.The analysis requests are encrypted with TLS, the code one submits can only be accessed by them and one is expected to submit both the source code and the compiled byte code of the smart contract for best results

The second step is to activate the full suite of analysis techniques behind MythX. The longer it runs, the more security weaknesses it can detect. This is because the precision of the symbolic checker: the Fuzzing components of MythX can get better with more iterations.

The third and final step is to receive a detailed analysis report from the MythX service. This report lists all the weaknesses found in the submitted code, including the exact location of those issues. The reports that are generated can only be accessed by the submitter. MythX here offers three scan modes: quick standard and deep, for differing levels of analysis depth and provides a user-friendly dashboard for analyzing the results returned.

### Tools

Now let's talk about the tools used by the MythX service. When a project submits their code to the MythX API, it gets analyzed by multiple microservices in parallel where three tools cooperate to return a more comprehensive set of results in the execution time decided by the type of scan chosen.

The first of the three tools is a static analyzer called Maru that parses the `Solidity` AST (Abstract Syntax Tree) for the project.

The second tool is a symbolic analyzer called Mythril that detects all the possible vulnerable states in the contract.

Finally, the third tool is Harvey which is a grey box fuzzer that detects vulnerable execution paths in the smart contract. Compared to traditional black box Fuzzing, gray box Fuzzing is guided by coverage information which is made possible by using program instrumentation to trace the code coverage reached by each input during Fuzzing.

So these three tools are used in combination by the MythX service to provide a comprehensive analysis of the vulnerabilities within the smart contract being analyzed.

### Coverage

The coverage that is provided by MythX extends to most of the smart contract weaknesses found in the smart contract weakness registry (SWC registry) which we will talk more about in one of the forthcoming sections. This comprehensive coverage addresses 46+ detectors as of today.

### Security-as-a-Service

MythX is based on a security-as-a-service (SaaS) platform with the premise that this approach is better because of three main reasons:

1. With this approach, one can expect higher performance compared to running the security tools locally because the compute power in the cloud is typically much much higher than what may typically be expected at the user's end on a laptop or a desktop.
2. We can expect a higher vulnerability coverage with three tools than running any single standalone.
3. Continuous improvements to security analysis technology with new or improved security tests methodologies and tools can be adopted as the smart contract security landscape evolves with different types of vulnerabilities and exploit vectors emerging as the compiler revisions change, new coding patterns emerge, new dependencies start getting used, new protocols start getting used and even the Ethereum protocol upgrades over time.

For these three reasons the SaaS or API based approach of MythX is considered as being better than running any one of those tools locally on the user's end.

### Privacy

It's understandable that project teams may have concerns uploading their smart contract code to a SaaS like MythX, so MythX provides a privacy guarantee the smart contract code submitted using their sas APIs.

The first one is that the code analysis requests are encrypted with TLS, and to provide comprehensive reports and improve performance, the MythX service stores some of the contract data in its database, including parts of the source code and bytecode, but that data never leaves their secure server and is not shared with any outside parties. It keeps the results of the analysis so that it can be retrieved later, but the reports can be accessed only by the project team: the service enforces authorized access to such results.

### Performance

Performance is usually a concern with security tools that perform deep analysis such as with symbolic checking or Fuzzing because they may require a lot of compute resources and proportionately longer amounts of time for running through their analysis to get good coverage and position.

In this case, MythX can be configured for three types of scans depending on the time expectation. Quick scans run for five minutes, standard scans run for 30 minutes while deep scans run for 90 minutes. As you can imagine, standard scans gives better results than quick scans and deep scans better than standard ones, so one can customize this the type of scans according to the development phase and time available.

For example, quick scans can be perhaps run by developers during their code comments and standard scans can be run at certain project milestones while deep scans, that take a much longer time, can be run on the nightly builds.

## Versions

MythX comes in different versions, so that it can be accessed via multiple ways. There is a command line interface version that provides a unified tool access to MythX, there is MythXjs which is a library to integrate detects in javascript or typescript projects, there is a python library called pythex to integrate methods in python projects and finally, there is a visual studio code extension for MythX that allows a project to scan smart contracts and view the results directly from the code editor.

### Pricing

As for pricing, MythX has four pricing plans.

1. On-demand pricing plan that costs $9.99 for three scans and all three scan modes are available as part of this plan.
2. Development plan that costs $49 a month. This gives access to quick and standard scan modes only and it allows 500 scans a month.
3. Professional plan which costs $249 a month and gives access to all scan modes and 10000 scans a month.
4. Enterprise pricing plan that allows for custom pricing, where custom plans can be decided between a project team and ConsenSys Diligence that meets the team's specific needs.

## Scribble

Let's now move on to another tool from ConsenSys Diligence called Scribble. Scribble is a verification language and a runtime verification tool that translates high level specifications into `Solidity` code. It allows one to annotate a `Solidity` smart contract with specific properties. There are four goals with Scribble:

1. Specifications should be easy to understand by developers and smart contract security auditors.
2. Specifications should be simple to reason about.
3. specifications should be efficiently checked using off-the-shelf analysis tools.
4. A small number of core specification constructs should be sufficient to express and reason about more advanced constructs.

So Scribble transforms annotations made within smart contract code using its specification language into concrete assertions, then with those instrumented contracts (that are equivalent to the original ones) one can use other tools from ConsenSys Diligence such as Mythril, Harvey or MythX to leverage these assertions for performing deeper checks. So Scribble is a relatively newer tool from ConsenSys Diligence and sounds very powerful in its capabilities, so it is strongly encouraged to take a look at the documentation of Scribble to get more insights on the motivations, the underlying concepts driving the tool and to test it out and exploring all its capabilities.

## Fuzzing-as-a-Service

Fuzzing as a service is a service that has been recently launched by ConsenSys Diligence where projects can submit their smart contracts along with embedded inline specifications or properties written using the Scribble language that we just talked about. These contracts are run through the Harvey fuzzer which uses the specified properties to optimize Fuzzing campaigns and any violations from such Fuzzing are reported back from the servers for the project to fix.

## Karl

Karl is another security tool from ConsenSys Diligence, which is used to monitor the Ethereum blockchain for newly deployed smart contracts that may be vulnerable in real time. Karl checks for security vulnerabilities using the Mythril detection engine. This can be an interesting monitoring tool for detecting vulnerable deployed smart contracts, but not during security auditing or reviews for projects that have yet to be launched.

## Theo

Another security tool from ConsenSys Diligence that is not specifically meant for auditing, but interesting nevertheless is Theo. Theo is an exploitation tool with a Metasploit like interface and provides a python REPL console from where one can access a long list of interesting features such as automatic smart contact scanning (which generates a list of possible exploits), sending transactions to exploit a smart contract, transaction pool monitoring, Front-running, backlining transactions and many others.

## Visual Auditor

A tool that could be very handy in the manual analysis phase of smart contact auditing is the visual auditor. This is a visual studio extension again from ConsenSys Diligence that provides security aware syntax and semantic highlighting for `Solidity` and `Vyper` languages.

Examples of things that are highlighted include modifiers, visibility specifiers, security relevant built-ins (such as a global, `tx.origin`, `msg.data` and so on...), storage access modifiers (indicating if a variable lives in memory or storage), developer notes in comments (such as to do's, fix me, hack, etc...), invocations, operations, constructor, fallback functions, state variables...

It has support for review specific features such as audit annotations and bookmarks, exploring dependencies and inheritance function signature hashes. It also supports graph and reporting features such as interactive call graphs with call flow highlighting diagrams and access to Surya features, which we'll talk about in the next section.

It also supports code augmentation features where additional information is displayed when hovering over Ethereum account addresses that allow one to download the bytecode or open it in the browser, hovering over assembly instructions to show the signatures and hovering over the state variables to show their declaration information. So overall the visual auditor is almost a must have tool while manually reviewing `Solidity` or `Vyper` code during audits.

## Surya

Surya is a visualization tool from ConsenSys Diligence that helps auditors in understanding and visualizing `Solidity` smart contracts by providing information about their structure and generating call graphs and inheritance graphs that can be very useful.

It also supports querying the function call graph in many ways to help during the manual inspection of contracts. his is integrated with the visual auditor tool that we discussed in the previous section. Surya supports several commands such as graph function trace, flatten, inheritance, dependencies, parts, generating a report in the markdown format, etc...

## SWC Registry

It is always helpful to have a registry of unique vulnerabilities, so that everyone can refer to a single source, keep it updated and use them in interesting ways. One such effort is the smart contract weakness classification registry (SWC registry).

This is an implementation of the weakness classification scheme proposed in EIP1470. It is loosely aligned to the terminologies and structure used in the common weakness enumeration (CWE) from web2 while being specific to smart contracts. the goals of this project are three fold:

1. To provide a way to classify security issues in smart contract systems.
2. To define a common language for describing security issues in smart contract systems, architecture design and code.
3. To serve as a way to train and improve smart contact security analysis tools.

This repository is currently maintained by ConsenSys Diligence and contains 36 entries as of now.

## CTFs

Let's now talk about a related concept called capture the flag (or CTF as it is popularly known as). CTFs are fun and educational challenges where participants have to hack different dummy smart contracts that have vulnerabilities in them. They help understand the complexities around how such vulnerabilities may be exploited in the white.

The popular CTFs in the space of Ethereum smart contracts include [Capture the Ether](https://capturetheether.com/) which is a set of 20 challenges created by Steve Marks which tests knowledge of Ethereum concepts of contracts, accounts and math among other things.

Then there is [Ethernaut](https://ethernaut.openzeppelin.com/) which is a web3 or `Solidity` based war game from OpenZeppelin that is played in the Ethereum virtual machine, and each level is a smart contract that needs to be hacked. The game is completely open source and all levels are contributions made by players themselves.

Then we have [Damn vulnerable DeFi](https://www.damnvulnerabledefi.xyz/) which is a set of 15 DeFi related challenges created by [Tincho Abbate](https://twitter.com/tinchoabbate) security researcher. Depending on the challenge one should either stop the system from working, steal as much funds as they can or do some other unexpected things.

Finally, we have [Paradigm CTF](https://twitter.com/paradigm\_ctf?lang=es) which is an annual CTF challenge created by Paradigm.

So CTFs can be a fun way to practically test out some of the things that you've learned in these chapters, so it is encouraged to take a look at some of these and see how well you do with them.

## Securify

Securify is a security scanner developed by ChainSecurity. It's a static analysis tool for Ethereum smart contracts written in Datalog and supports 38+ vulnerabilities. We won't go into the details of this tool.

## VerX

VerX is a formal verification tool, again from the ChainSecurity, that can automatically prove temporal safety properties of Ethereum smart contracts. The verifier is based on a combination of three ideas:

1. Reduction of temporal safety verification to reachability checking.
2. A symbolic execution engine used to compute precise symbolic states within a transaction.
3. the concept of delayed abstraction, which approximates symbolic states at the end of transactions into abstract states.

The details of this tool are out of scope over here. For more information, it is encouraged to look at their website for documentation and their academic paper for greater details behind the theory of this tool.

## Smart Check

Smart check is a security tool from SmartDec. It is another static analysis tool for discovering vulnerabilities and other code issues in Ethereum smart contracts written in `Solidity`. An interesting implementation aspect here is that it translates `Solidity` source code into an `xml` based intermediate representation, then checks it against XPath patterns. For context, XPath stands for `xml` path language, which uses a path notation for navigating through the hierarchical structure of an `xml` document.

## K-framework

K-framework is a verification framework from RuntimeVerification. It includes kEVM which is a model of EVM in the K-framework. It is the first executable specification of the EVM that completely passes the official EVM test suites and so, could serve as a platform for building a wide range of verbal analysis tools for EVM. Again we won't go into any level of details for this framework, but it is encouraged to look at the documentation to get a better understanding of its capabilities.

## Certora Prover

Certora Prover is a formal verification tool from Certora. It checks that a smart contract satisfies a set of rules written in a language called CVL (Certora Verification Language). Each rule is checked on all possible transactions not by explicitly enumerating them of course, but rather through symbolic techniques.

The prover provides complete path coverage for a set of safety rules provided by the user. For example, a rule might want to check that a bounded number of tokens can be minted in an `ERC20` contract. The prover either guarantees that such a rule holds on all paths and all inputs or produces a test input known as a counter example that demonstrates a violation of this rule.

This problem addressed by Certora prover is going to be undecidable, which means that there will always be some pathological programs or rules for which the prover will time out without a definitive answer.

This prover takes as input the smart contract (either the bytecode or the `Solidity` source code) along with a set of rules written in CVL, and then automatically determines whether or not the contract satisfies all the rules provided using a combination of two fundamental computer science techniques known as abstract interpretation and constraint solving.

## HEVM

DappHub's HEVM is an implementation of the EVM made specifically for unit testing and debugging smart contracts. It can help run unit tests, property tests and also help interactively debug contracts while showing the `Solidity` source code, or also run arbitrary EVM code.

With this we have touched upon the various security tools that you may come across in this space. There are likely others that we haven't covered here purely for constraints of time and scope and some like SMT checker which we have covered in the `Solidity` chapter earlier.

For all these tools, the best way to understand their capabilities and specific use cases is to install and experiment with them.

In summary smart content security tools are useful in assisting auditors while reviewing smart contracts they automate many of the tasks that can be codified into rules with different levels of coverage correctness and precision these tools are fast cheap scalable and deterministic compared to manual analysis however they are also susceptible to false positives they are therefore especially well suited correctly to detect common security pitfalls and best practices at disability and EVM levels and with varying degrees of manual assistance they can also be programmed to check for application level business logic constraints.
