# Transactions, Messages & Blockchain

## Distinction between Transactions and Messages

So far, we have used both the terms Transaction and Message interchangeably, but in the context of the protocol they are actually very different:

*   **Transactions**: originate off chain (by an EOA when an external actor, that is, external to the blockchain, sends a signed data package onto the blockchain) and target an entity on the blockchain.\


    This transaction can trigger a message that can do one of two things:

    * It can trigger a message to another EOA, in which case it leads to a transfer of value (transfer of Ether).
    * It can trigger a message to a contract account, in which case it leads to the recipient contract account running its contract code and doing whatever the code is intended to do.
*   **Messages**: the origination and the destination are both onchain\


    Messages can be triggered in two ways:

    * externally by a transaction. The destination of that message could be another EOA or another contract account.
    * internally within the EVM. This happens when a smart contract executes the call family of opcodes and that leads to the recipient contract account running its code, or value transfer to the recipient.

## How to build a Blockchain

Blocks are batches of transactions that are grouped together plus the hash of the previous block (a cryptographic hash that is derived from the previous flux data), creating thus a "chain" among the blocks. This is how at high level a blockchain is constructed, and it is also the fundamental reason why a blockchain is considered immutable, which lends itself to the blockchain's integrity.

The reason for that is because if someone were to change any component of a historical block (any of the transaction data: the destination or any other aspect) then that change would affect all of the following blocks: all the hashes that are included in the following blocks would be different from the hash of the modified block, and this is something that anybody running the blockchain or looking at the blockchain would notice. That would break the the immutability of the blockchain.

To preserve the transaction history, blocks are ordered. Therefore, every new block created contains a reference to its parent block and similarly, transactions within the blocks are also strictly ordered. All these critical aspects are the reason why the integrity of a blockchain is maintained and prevents any fraud from happening.

## Block Header

So far we have said that the blocks in the Ethereum blockchain contain transactions, but there's more to it: every block contains a block header along with the transactions. The headers of the Ommer's blocks.

Each block header itself has several components to it that are critical to how the Ethereum blockchain functions. They contain several things such as:

*   **The parent hash**: the hash of the parent block's header.\


    This is what chains the blocks and the Ethereum blockchain together to make it immutable and provides the fantastic integrity property of the blockchain.
* **The Ommer's hash**
*   **Beneficiary address**: the address of the Ethereum account to which the block reward for mining this block and all the transaction fees collected from the mining of the transactions included in this block are transferred to.\


    This address is typically controlled by the miner who has mined this block.
*   **`stateRoot`**: one of the three root hashes of the modified Merkle-Patricia tree. These root hashes are 256 bit in length.\


    The manner in which the state root is derived is critical to how the Ethereum state is captured within the blockchain: the leaves of the state root are `(key, value)` pairs of all the Ethereum address accounts.\


    The keys are the Ethereum addresses of the accounts and the values represent the Ethereum state within that account.\


    Recall that every Ethereum account has four fields: a `nonce`, a `balance`, a `codeHash` and a `storageRoot`. If that account happens to be an EOA, then the `codeHash` and `storageRoot` don't really matter (they don't contain anything in them).\


    But if that account happens to be a contact account, then the `codeHash` has the Keccak-256 hash of the code that is contained within that contract account, and the `storageRoot` of that contract account has the rootHash of another Merkle-Patricia tree where the leaves represent the storage that is associated with that contract.
* **`transactionsRoot`**: one of the three root hashes of the modified Merkle-Patricia tree, where the leaves represent the transactions. Also 256 bit in length.
*   **`receiptsRoot`**: one of the three root hashes of the modified Merkle-Patricia tree, where the leaves represent the transaction receipts. Also 256 bit in length.\


    **But what is a transaction receipt?**\


    A transaction receipt can be thought of as the side effects of a particular transaction that are captured on the blockchain. Besides any changes to the account state that transactions might make, there are other side effects that are captured on the blockchain for this particular transaction. It is a tuple that contains four items:

    * **The cumulative Gas used**: the total Gas used in the block up until right after this particular transaction has happened, so in some sense it captures the ordering of the transactions within the block.
    * A **set of logs**: related to the concept of events in `Solidity` (which we will study in the `Solidity` chapter). These are events that can be generated by any transaction that is captured on the blockchain.\
      \
      They're really critical to how off-chan components, user interfaces and other components monitor what's happening with a smart contract.
    * The **Bloom filters** specifically associated with those logs: they capture the indexed parameters for every event, so that one can query particular parameters of that event in a faster manner.
    * A _status quo_: what really happened with the transaction.
* **`logsBloom`**
* **`dificulty`**: difficulty of the block in the context of PoW.
* **`blockNumber`**: the number of blocks that have been mined so far right. This number sort of indicated the position of the block within the blockchain.
*   **`gasLimit`** (called Block Gas Limit under more formal contexts): the Gas limit that's specific to this block.\


    This concept is essential to Ethereum as it dictates **the number of transactions that are added in this block**.\


    This concept is different from the Gas limit which we talked about earlier that was specific to the transaction. This Block Gas Limit refers to the total Gas that is spent by all the transactions in that block and this effectively caps the number of transactions that can be included within that block.\


    So the block size is in fact not fixed in terms of the number of transactions, but it's fixed in terms of the Gas used by all the transactions. The reason for that is that every transaction can consume a different amount of Gas.\


    The Block Gas Limit is set by the Ethereum miners in a very interesting way: by voting on the blockchain. This is currently set to 15 million and it has also changed over time, depending on the miners' voting. It also represents the level of demand there is for the block space on Ethereum.
* **`gasUsed`**: the total Gas used by all the transactions in this block.
* **`extraData`**
* **`timestamp`**: (derived from the unix time) indicates at what point in time was the block was mined.
* **mix-hash**: critical component of the PoW. See **subsection** [_**Ethereum PoW: Present and Future**_](1.4\_Ethereum\_core\_components.md#Ethereum-PoW:-Present-and-Future).
* **`nonce`**: critical component of the PoW. See **subsection** [_**Ethereum PoW: Present and Future**_](1.4\_Ethereum\_core\_components.md#Ethereum-PoW:-Present-and-Future).
