# Test-in-Prod. SSLDC vs. Audits

**Test-in-prod** is a concept that, although it may have started as a meme, has certainly an element of truth to it in the web3 space and Ethereum. If you go back to the concepts of compressed time scales, unrestricted composability of contracts and applications in this space, the byzantine threat model and the challenges of replicating the full state of a live blockchain in a test setting; all these are really what make testing in a testing environment very hard.

Again, this contasts with the web2 world where there are very clear distinctions between a test environment and a production setting for various reasons of owning the complete stack, the maturity of the tools, the lack of sort of unconstrained composability with arbitrary components outside of the stack for that particular product.

All those aspects that are very well defined in the web2 space from a testing perspective, are very challenging to set in the web3 space. This is further complicated by the maturity of the tools that are still experimental in some sense in the web3 space, and also the mechanism design aspect of it: the attackers and the users potentially being the abusers.

All these things come together to make testing, which is really fundamental when thinking about security and making something more secure or getting a better level of assurance from the product, very hard to do because the real world failure models cannot be replicated very easily in a test environment.

This implies that it forces "_realistic_" testing to happen only in production. In the case of web3, in the case of Ethereum, on mainnet. So none of the testnets we talked about can match to some of the assumptions and the constraints that their software contracts will be subjected to.

So, the complex technical exploits (i.e. crypto economic exploits), can only be discoverable upon production deployment on the mainnet. This is again a hypothesis, but it is worth thinking about.

## SSDLC

An interesting concept to go through, is web2's concept of **SSDLC** which stands for **Secure Software Development Life Cycle**. There are many approaches to this, but in general, any web2 product software, product hardware or product service has a version of SSDLC which is used during the development life cycle.

This version guarantees that some minimum requirements have been met in a combination of testing, internal validation and some sort of external assessment depending on the product. It could be a product audit, a process audit, maybe even penetration testing if it is applicable to that product.

Also depending on the nature of assets that are managed, the risk that is faced, the threat model that is anticipated and even the specific sector or domain that the products are introduced in (such as he financial sector) there exist certifications assuring that the product application or service has to met to be succesfully deployedright. This is prevalent in the web2 space and has evolved again over the last several decades.

## Audits

When it comes to the **web3** space, however, we do not see a mature SSDLC yet. What we see is this concept of **audits**, and unfortunately the life cycle of development has boiled down to building the product (be it a smart contract or a web3 application), getting an audit done from an external company (a security firm/individual that specializes in, let's say, smart contract security) and then going ahead and launching it.

There is an expectation both from the development team as well as the users (the market in general) to perceive this audit as a silver bullet: something that detects all the security issues in the smart contract, fixes everything and then sort of guarantees that the product is free of bugs and vulnerabilities when it is launched.

**Audits are not a "_stamp of security approval_"**. There are some fundamental aspects that contribute to audits being perceived in this fashion (at least this is a hypothesis). The big one is in general the lack of in-house security expertise: given the rapid innovation time scales in the space, the developers are few and there's a huge demand for developers.

There is even a bigger demand for people who not only understand how to develop in Ethereum and the web3 space, but to understand the security pitfalls, which require a greater level of effort and expertise. This lack of in-house security expertise and the challenge of wanting and having to launch some of these protocols as fast as the team can, forces such teams to seek out external audit firms and get these audits, leading to think of them, market them and brand them as stamps for security approval.

So there's this very unrealistic expectations from audits to be "_catch-all_" for all the security vulnerabilities and bugs that are anticipated in a smart contract or in a web3 application. For reasons of great demand and very low supply of this expertise, these audits are also very expensive: there are very few audit firms compared to the demand, which leads to a vicious loop where projects want audits but all the audit firms are really booked 6 or 9 months (depending on the market conditions). It is a core problem in the current space and state-of-art.