# `Solidity` Variables

## Scoping

This is fundamental to every programming language as it affects what is known as variable visibility, or in other words "_where can variables be used in relation to where they're declared_". In the case of `Solidity`, it uses the widely used scoping rules of `C99` standard.

So variables are visible from the point right after the declaration until the end of the smallest curly bracket block that contains that declaration. As an exception to this rule, variables declared in the initialization part of a `for` loop are only visible until the end of the loop.

Variables that are parameters, like function parameters, modifier parameters or catch parameters are visible inside the code block that follows the body of the function (or modifier or catch).

Other items declared outside of a code block such as functions, contracts, state variables or user defined types are visible even before they are declared. This means that we can see the usage of state variables even before they are declared within the context of a contract. This is what allows functions to be called recursively.

From a security perspective, understanding the scoping rules of `Solidity` becomes important when we are doing data flow analysis. This could be in the context of a manual review, where you're looking at the code yourself or when you're writing tools to do static analysis on `Solidity` smart contracts.

## Default Values

Variables that are declared but not initialized have default values. In the case of `Solidity`, the default values of variables are what is known as a "_zero state_" of that particular type. This means is that in the case of a boolean, it has a value of zero as a default which represents a value of `false` for the boolean. For unsigned integers or integer types, this is `0` (as expected). For statically sized arrays and `bytes1` to `bytes32`, each individual element will be initialized to the default value corresponding to its type. For dynamically sized arrays, `bytes` and `string` the default value is an empty array or `string`. For enum types, the default value is its first member.

From a security perspective this becomes important because variables that are declared and not initialized end up with these default values. In some cases, such as an address type, the zero address (which is a default value) has a special meaning in Ethereum, and that affects some of the security properties within the contract depending on how those address variables are used.

## Literals

This is something that you would have come across in other programming languages, as well `Solidity` supports five types of literals: **address types**, **rational**/**integers**, **strings**, **unicode** and **hexadecimals**.

The address literals are hexadecimal literals that pass the address checksum test. Remember that Ethereum addresses are 20 bytes in length, so in the case of the hexadecimal address representation, half a byte is represented by a hexadecimal character. This results in the address literal having 40 characters: 2 for every byte. These should pass the checksum test.

The checksum is something that has been introduced in EIP55 to make sure that there are no typographical errors when you're using addresses in the context of Ethereum. This is a mixed case addressed exam.

Rational literals and integer literals are also supported. Integer literals have a sequence of numbers in the 0 to 9 range. Decimal fraction literals are formed by using a decimal point, with at least one number in each side. Scientific notation is supported where the base can have fractions and the exponent cannot. Underscores can be used to separate these digits, which is used to help with readability and does not have any semantic significance.

String literals are written with either double quotes (`""`) or single quotes (`''`). They can only contain printable `ASCII` characters and a set of escape characters. Unicode literals they have to be prefixed with the keyword `unicode`. They can contain any `utf-8` sequence.

The hexadecimal literals are hexadecimal digits prefixed with the keyword `"hex"` or `'hex'`. The usage of all these literals is in the context of constants.

## Booleans

**Boolean types** are declared using the `bool` keyword. They can have only two possible values: `true` or `false`.

There are five operators that can operate on boolean types:

| Name                | Operator |
|---------------------|----------|
| not operator        | `!`      |
| equality operator   | `==`     |
| inequality operator | `!=`     |
| and operator        | `&`      |
| or operator         | `\|\|`   |

The latter two operators are also known as logical conjunction and logical disjunction operators.

**Operators apply the short circuiting rules**. For example, in an expression that uses the logical disjunction or, operator if there are two booleans let's say `x` or `y`, if x evaluates to `true`, then the boolean `y` will not be evaluated at all even if it may have side effects.

This is because the expression already evaluates to `true` and there's no need for the second boolean to be evaluated at all and similarly this applies to the **and** operator logical conjunction as well. So if there are two booleans that have this operator, let's say `x` and `y`, and if `x` happens to be `false`, then we know that the expression finally will evaluate to `false`, so there is no reason for the compiler to evaluate, because the result is already known to be `false` from a security perspective.

**Booleans are used significantly in smart contract functions** for various conditionals and evaluations of expressions. **This affects the control flow and specifically when it comes to certain checks access control checks**. 

### **_History_**

There have been cases where booleans have been used, and the wrong operator has been used in those checks. So for example using the **not** or logical disjunction instead of logical conjunction.

It can have big implications to how that particular expression evaluates and that check, the access control check or whatever that might be, might not be effective at all as intended by the specification. So this is again something to pay attention to when you're looking at booleans and the operators that evaluate that operate on the booleans in smart contracts.

## Integers

**Integer types** are very common in `Solidity` and any programming language. There are unsigned and signed integers of various sizes. In `Solidity` they use the `uint` or `int` keywords. They come in **sizes from 8 bits all the way to the word size of 256 bits**.

So you'll see declarations of unsigned integers or integers signed intgers in the form of `uint8` all the way to 256.

```solidity
uint8, uint16, ..., uint256 
int8, int16, ..., int256
```

There are various operators for integer types. There are different categories that we saw in the EVM instruction set: **arithmetic operators**, **comparative operators**, **bit operators** and **shift operators**.

From a security perspective, given that integer variables are vastly used in `Solidity` contracts, they **affect the data flow of the contract logic** and specifically there is an aspect of integers that becomes **security critical** which is that of **underflow and overflow**.

### Integer Arithmetic

Integer arithmetic is arithmetic that operates on integer operands, signed integer operands or unsigned integers operands `Solidity`. Like in any other language, they are really restricted to a certain range of values, so for example if you have `uint256`, then the range of that variable is from a value of $$0$$ to $$2^{256} - 1$$. 

If there is any operation on a variable of, let's say `uint256` type that forces it to go **beyond this range**, then it leads to what is known as an **overflow** or an **underflow**: this causes wrapping.

In the case of `uint256` (let's say that the value of one of those `uint256` variables was the maximum value), if the contract logic incremented it by 1 more, then that integer value would overflow: it would wrap to the other side of the range and would become 0.

Similarly an underflow, let's say in the case of the value was 0, if the logic decremented it by one more, then it would again cause wrapping to the other end of the range and the value of that variable would now be $$2^{256} - 1$$. This can have significant unintended side effects when it comes to the integer values used in that logic.

There have been numerous cases of certain integer values being overflowed or underfloored, leading to huge exploits vulnerabilities from a security perspective. This is something that is critical when it comes to the security of integers, basically in the smart contract.

To address this specific aspect in versions of `Solidity` below `0.8.0`, **the best practice was to use the `SafeMath` libraries from OpenZeppelin** that made operating on integer variables safe with respect to overflows and underflows. `Solidity` itself as a language recognized this aspect of security and introduced in version `0.8.0` default overflow and underflow checks for integers.

In contracts that are written with the compiler version `0.8.0` and above, one can actually switch between the default checked arithmetic (that checks for underflows and overflows and causes exceptions when that happens) versus unchecked arithmetic (where the programmer or the developer asserts that for the expressions used in that unchecked arithmetic there is no way or no cause for concern when it comes to overflows and underflows), so all the default underlying checks in the language in the compiler itself should be disabled.

This is something to be paid attention as it is a critical aspect of smart contact security. When looking at smart contracts, pay attention to the solution compiler version that was used: if it is below `0.8.0`, then there should be the use of safe map from OpenZeppelin, or some of the other equivalents that make sure that the integers don't overflow and underflow and cause security vulnerabilities. If the compiler version is `0.8.0` or beyond, then one should pay attention to any expressions, integer expressions, that are using `unchecked` blocks to make sure that those don't have any overflows or underflows.

### Fixed point arithmetic

Conceptually you would have seen this in other languages, as well for numbers that have an integer part and a fractional part, the location or the position of the decimal point indicates if it is fixed or floating. If that position or location of the decimal point can change for that type then it is referred to as a floating point type.

But if that position is fixed for all variables of that type, then it is known as fixed point arithmetic. In the case of `Solidity`, these can be declared but cannot be assigned. There's no real support in `Solidity`. **For any use of fixed point arithmetic**, one has to **depend on some of the libraries such as** `DSMath`, `PRBMath`, `ABDKMath64x64` or others.

### Integer Members

Integers have some members accessible with the `type(x)` instruction (where `x` happens to be an integer).

`type(x).min` returns the smallest value representable by the type `x`. Similarly, `type(x).max` primitive returns the largest value that is representable by the type `x`. So for example the `type(uint8).max` returns the maximum value representable by the unsigned integer of size 8 bits, and in this case it happens to be $$255$$ which is $$2^8 - 1$$.

## Arrays

Array types are something that are very common in most programming languages, in the case of `Solidity` they come in two types

- **Static arrays**: where the size of the array is known at compile time. They are represented as `T[k]` (a static array of size `k`).
- **Dynamic size arrays**: where the size of the array is known at compile time and its size may vary dynamically. They are represented as `T[]`

The elements of these arrays can be of any type that is supported by `Solidity`. The indices that are used with these arrays are 0 based (the first array element is stored at `T[0]` and not `T[1]`).

If these arrays are accessed by the logic past their length, then `Solidity` automatically reverts that access and creates an exception, which causes a failing assertion in the context of the contract doing such an access.

From a security perspective, arrays are very commonly used in smart contracts, **so the things to pay attention to are to check if the correct index is being used especially in the context of indices being zero based and to check if arrays have an off by 1 error, where they're being accessed either beyond or below their supported indices**, in which case such an **access could lead to an exception and the transaction would revert.**

The other aspect to keep in mind with arrays is if the length of the array that is being accessed is really long and if the types are complicated underneath, then the amount of gas that is used for the processing of such arrays could end up in what is known as a denial of service attack (DoS) where those transactions revert because not enough gas can be supplied as part of the transaction so you would end up with no processing happening because a transaction would revert.

### Array Members
The members that are supported for array types there are four:

- `length` returns the number of elements in the array.
- `push()` appends a 0 initialized element at the end of the array and it returns a reference to that element.
- `push(x)` appends the specified element `x` to the end of the array and it returns nothing.
- `pop` on the other hand removes an element from the end of the array and implicitly calls delete on that remote element.

### Memory Arrays
**Memory arrays are arrays that are created in memory, they can have dynamic length and can be created using the** `new` **operator**. But as opposed to storage arrays, **it's not possible to resize them**. So the `push()` **member functions are not available** for such memory arrays.

So the options are for the developer to either **calculate the required size in advance** and use that appropriately during the creation of these arrays, **or create a new memory array and copy every element of the older memory array into the new one** an example is shown here.

```solidity
uint[] memory a = new uint[](7);
```

### Array Literals
They are another type that is supported by `Solidity`. They are a comma separated list of one or more expressions, enclosed in square brackets (which is how arrays are represented in `Solidity`).

These are always statically sized memory arrays, whose length is the number of expressions used within them. The base type of the array is the type of the first expression of that list, such that all other expressions can be converted to the first expression. If that is not possible then it is a type error indicated by `Solidity`.

Fixed size memory arrays cannot be assigned to dynamically sized memory arrays within `Solidity`, so these are some aspects to be kept in mind when evaluating contracts that have array literals.

### Array Gas Costs

Arrays have `push` and `pop` operations. Increasing the length of a storage array by calling `push`, has constant Gas cost because storage is zero initialized. Whereas if you use `pop` on such arrays to decrease their length, the Gas cost associated with that operation depends on the size of the element being removed. If the element being removed happens to be an entire array, then it can be very costly because it includes explicitly clearing the removed elements, which is similar to calling `delete` on each one of them.

### Array Slices

`Solidity` supports the notion array slices. Array slices are views that are supported on contiguous array portions of existing arrays. They are not a separate type in `Solidity`, but they can be used in intermediate expressions to extract useful portions of existing arrays as required by the logic within the smart contracts. These are written as

```solidity
X[start:end]
/** This expression takes the array from element X[start]
up to element X[end-1]
*/
```

From an error checking perspective if `start > end` or if `end > n` (where `n` is the size of the array) then an exception is thrown. Both these `start` and `end` values are optional, where `start` defaults to `0` and `end` defaults to the length of the array `n`. Array slices do not have any members that are supported, and for now `Solidity` only supports array slices for call data arrays.

## Byte Arrays

**Byte array types are used to store arrays of raw bytes**. There are two kinds here: 

- **Fixed size byte arrays**: we can use them if we know what the size of the byte array is going to be in advance. They come in 32 kinds: `bytes1` for storing 1 byte, all the way to `bytes32` for storing 32 bytes, which is the full word size in the context of EVM.
- **Dynamic size byte arrays**: we must use them if we do not know the fixed size in advance. They are indicated by `byte[]`, but due to padding rules of EVM it wastes 31 bytes of space for every element that is stored in it. So, if we have a choice, then it's better to use the `bytes` type instead of the `byte` type for these byte arrays. This is something that you will commonly come across in smart contracts for storing raw bytes example in case of hashes.

### `bytes` & `string`

`bytes` are used to stir arbitrary byte data of arbitrary length. Remember that **if we know beforehand the size of the byte array**, then we can **use the fixed size byte arrays** to store those number of bytes.

But if you do not know what the size is beforehand, then we can use the `bytes` type, and even there we have a choice of bytes or the byte array we talked about earlier.

Remember that the byte array uses 31 bytes of padding for every element stored and leads to waste of that space so **it's preferable to use bytes over the byte array**.

**String type is equivalent to the byte style except that it does not allow accessing the length of the string and the index of a particular byte in that string**, so it does not have those members. `Solidity` **does not yet have inbuilt string manipulation functions but there are third party string libraries** that one can use.

## Function Types

**Function types are types used to indicate that variables represent actual functions**. These variables can be used just like any other variables: they can be assigned from functions because they are of the function type, and they can be sent as arguments to other functions and can also be used to return values from other functions.
 
They come in two types: `internal` and `external`.
- **Internal functions** can only be called inside the current contract.
- **External functions** consist of the address of the contract where they're relevant and a function signature along with it. They can be passed and returned from external function calls.

The usage of function types is somewhat minimal in most of the common smart contracts.

## Structs

From a data structure perspective, structs are custom data structures that can group together several variables of the same or different types to create something very unique to the contract as required by the developer. So these are used extensively within smart contracts, they're very commonly encountered. The various members of the structs are accessed as follows

```solidity
// Create a struct
struct Book { 
   string title;
   string author;
   uint book_id;
}
// Fill in some info
Book my_book = Book("El Quixote", "Miguel de Cervantes", 1);
// Access a member
my_book.author
```

which returns...

```solidity
"Miguel de Cervantes"
```

Some of the properties of `struct` types are that they can be used inside mappings, arrays and they themselves can contain mappings and arrays. All these different complex reference types can be used in a very interrelated manner and allows for a versatile usage of these data structures to support different kinds of encapsulation logic when it comes to the different data types within a smart contract. **There's one exception: `struct` types cannot contain members of the same `struct` type.**

## Enums

**Enums are a way to create user defined types in** `Solidity`. **They can have members anywhere: from 1 member all the way to a maximum of 256 members, and the default value of an** `enum` **is that of the first member**. This is something that you see sometimes in smart contracts where `enums` **are used to represent the names of the various states** within the context of the contract logic or the transitions in some cases. This is something that helps to **improve readability** instead of using the underlying integers that the `enums` really represent. As they represent the underlying integer values, they can be explicitly converted to and from integers. An example looks as follows

```solidity
enum ActionChoices{GoLeft, GoRight};
ActionChoices choice = ActionChoices.GoRight;
```

So here `choice` is a variable of `ActionChoices` and it can be assigned the members of `ActionChoices`. Here we are assigning `ActionChoices.GoRight` to `choice` and during the course of the contact function, different members can be assigned to that variable and it can be read from. This is used to improve readability, so instead of using integer values one can use specific names that correspond to those integer values in the context of what makes sense from that contract and its underlying logic.

## Mappings

It is an interesting reference type somewhat unique to `Solidity`. Mapping types define `(key, value)` pairs, they're declared using the following syntax

```solidity
mapping(_key => _value) _Var
```

The `key` type in a `mapping` can be really any built-in value type: `byte`, `string` or any contract or enum type even. Other user defined or complex types, such as `mapping structs` or `array` types are not allowed to be used as the key type, so there are some restrictions here.

On the other hand, the `value` type of that `(key, value)` pair, can be any type including mappings, arrays and structs. There are some interesting aspects of how mappings are created and maintained by `Solidity`: the `key` data is not stored in the `mapping`, it is only used to look up the value by taking a Keccak-256 hash of that `key` data.

They also do not have a concept of length nor a concept of a `key` or `value` being set in the mapping. They can only have a storage data location, so they are only allowed for state variables. They cannot be used as parameters or return values of contact functions that are publicly visible.

These restrictions are also true for arrays and structs that contain mappings, not just mappings themselves. Also one cannot iterate over the mappings, you cannot enumerate their keys and get the resulting values. This is not supported by default but it is possible where required by implementing another data structure on top of mappings and iterating over them. So very versatile type in `Solidity` again, very commonly encountered in smart contracts to store associations between different data structures that are used in that contract logic.
