# Address Type

It's a type that is specific to `Solidity` and Ethereum, and it is critical to security: the `address` type. To highlight its importance, we dedicate a section especially to `address`.

`address` refers to the underlying Ethereum account address, the EOA or the contract account. This is different from the addresses that you might have encountered in other programming languages such as `C` and `C++`, where they refer to variables' memory address when you're dealing with pointers or references. Here address signifies something very different: an account address.

The `address` types are 20 bytes in size, because remember that is the size of the Ethereum address. They come in two types they can be **plain** `address` types or they can have a `payable` **specifier, and referred to as an `address payable` type**, where it indicates that this `address` type can receive Ether. There are different operators that operate on address types, such as shown here

* Operators `==`, `!=`, `<`, `<=`, `>` and `>=`
* Implicit/Explicit Conversions

There are conversions that can be performed on `address` types. Some of them are implicit and others are explicit. For converting `address payable` types to `address` types, implicit conversions can be used because it is safe. Whereas the other way around, where an `address` type is converted to an `address payable` type, that should be an explicit conversion because now this address becomes capable of receiving Ether.

From a security perspective, `address` types play a critical role in contracts. These addresses are used in different types of access control: some may be considered as more privileged than the others in the context of the contract logic.

Addresses can also hold Ether balances and token balances, so using the right addresses in the right places and making sure that the correct access control logic or the balances accounting logic is applied on them, becomes very critical from a security perspective to make sure there are no undefined behavior or unintended side effects leading to security vulnerabilities.

## Address Members

Address types have different members that can give different aspects of the underlying `address` types:

* **`balance`**: gives (as the name may suggest) the balance of that address in wei.
* **`code`**: gives (surprise...) the code of that address.
* **`code hash`**: gives the hash of the code.

There are also the `transfer` and `send` members that **are applicable to the** `address payable` **types**. In addition, the `call`, `delegate call` and `static call` members can be applied on plain `address` types. We are going to elaborate on all of these shortly...

So as you can imagine, these `address` members play a huge role when it comes to the security aspects, because they deal with the balances, look at the code, the code hash, the reentrancy aspects of `send` and `transfer`, making external calls using `call`, `delegatecall`, and `staticcall`, which are critical when it comes to the trustworthiness of the contracts that are being called at these addresses.

### Transfer & Send

They make calls to the addresses that are specified by supplying a limited gas stipend of only 2300 gas units. This is not adjustable: it is something hard coded in `Solidity` to address the category of reentrancy attacks on addresses. We'll take a look at the reentrancy aspect later on in the security modules, but it's something to keep in mind for now.

The `transfer` member is used for transferring Ether to the destination address. This transfer triggers the `receive` function, or the `fallback` function of the target contract. From a security perspective this primitive affects reentrancy attacks: where the target contract, if it is untrusted, could potentially call back into the caller contract and lead to undesired behavior that could affect token balances or other contract logic in in a very critical way. The 2300 gas assumption is critical when you look at how contracts use transfer and whether that transaction could fail and revert and lead to undefined behavior.

Similar to `transfer`, there is `send` member `Solidity`'s `address` type, which is somewhat a lower level counterpart for `transfer`. It is used for Ether transfers: it triggers the same receiver `fallback` functions like `transfer`, but **it does not result in a failure if the target contract uses more than 2300 gas unlike transfer**. In the case of `send`, it does not revert but it just sends back a boolean return value that indicates a either success (`true`) or failure (`false`).

So if the `send` primitive is used to transfer value, then from a security perspective it means that the return value of that `send` primitive must be checked by the caller to make sure that the transfer happened successfully or not, depending on what was returned. Again, the `send` primitive affects reentrancy, which is again why the `send` primitive was introduced as a mitigation in `Solidity`. The return value check that is critical and and different from its `transfer` counterpart.

## External Calls

These are used to make low level calls to their specific address that is specified. We talked about some of these calls in the context of the underlying instructions, `call`, `delegatecall`, and `staticcall` instructions, where we talked about how the callee account in the case of `delegatecall` executes with its logic but with the state of the caller account. Similarly in the case of `staticcall` we talked about how the callee contract address can access the state but cannot modify the state.

These instructions are used to interface with contracts that do not adhere to the ABI or where the developer wants more direct control over such calls. They all take single bytes memory parameter, return the success condition as a boolean and return data in a bytes memory. They can also use `abi.*` functions, such as `encode`, `codepath`, encode with selector, encoded signature... to encode structured data as part of the arguments.

They can also use gas and value modifiers to specify the amount of gas and Ether for these calls. The latter is applicable for the `call` primitive but not `delegatecall` or `staticcall`.

To summarize: the `delegatecall` is used where the caller contract wants to use the logic specified by the callee contract but with the state and other aspects of the caller contract itself. So while the code of the given address is used, all other aspects such as `storage`, `balance`, `message`, `sender` are taken from the current caller contract. The purpose of `delegatecall` is to enable use cases such as libraries or proxy upgradability, where the logic code is stored in the callee contract but that operates on the state of the caller contract.

`staticcall` is used where we want the called function in the callee contract to look at or to read the state of the caller contract, but not modify it in any way.

The use of external calls have different types of security implications, these are low level calls that should be avoided in most cases unless absolutely required and there are no alternatives available, because these are calling out to external contracts that may be untrusted, in the context of the current applications threat model or trust model.

These external contracts could result in undefined behavior, use more gas than expected, cause re-entrances to the caller contract and might also return failures where if the return value is not checked, could result in undefined behavior as well.

A counter-intuitive aspect of these low-level calls is that **if these calls are made to contract accounts that do not exist for some reason they still return `true` based on the design of the EVM**.

This can have some serious side effects if the contract logic assumes that the external call was successful and executed the logic that it expected it to execute because it got a value of `true` from these primitives. The mitigation for this aspect of low level calls is to check for contract existence before these calls are made, and have the logic handle it appropriately if they do not exist.

This has resulted in some serious security vulnerabilities being reported in various high-profile smart contract projects, so something to be kept in mind when analyzing the security of smart contracts that use these low level calls.

## Contract Type

Every contract that's declared is its own type and these contract types **can be explicitly converted to and from address types**. That is what they represent underneath. These contract types do not have any operators supported, and the only members of these types are external functions declared in the contract along with any state variables.

Solidity supports some contract related primitives that need to be understood:

* The keyword `this` refers to the current contract. Remember: **it can be converted to an** `address` **type explicitly**.
*   The `selfdestruct()` primitive in `Solidity`, related to the `SELFDESTRUCT` instruction in the EVM. This primitive is a high level wrapper on top of that instruction, it takes in a single argument: an `address` type specifying the recipient.\


    This recipient will receive all the funds in the contract when it is destroyed (the Ether balance in that destroyed contract, when the execution ends). There are some specifics of `selfdestruct` that need to be kept in mind from a security perspective for several reasons.\


    One of them is that the recipient `address` specified in this primitive does not execute the `receive()` function when it is triggered.\


    _Recall that contracts can specify a receive function that gets triggered on Ether transfers or under other conditions_.\


    In the context of the `selfdestruct()` primitive, the recipient `address` happens to be a contract and it specifies a `receive()` function that does not get triggered when `selfdestruct()` happens.\


    This is critical because any logic that might be within that `receive()` function might have been anticipated by the developer to be triggered anytime ether is received by the contract, but `selfdestruct()` is an exception to that logic.\


    Also the contract gets destroyed by `selfdestruct()` only at the end of the transaction that has triggered this flow. What this means is that if there is any other logic after `selfdestruct()` that may revert for various reasons, then that revert undoes the destruction of the contract itself. So just because we see a `selfdestruct()` in the control flow does not mean that the contract gets destroyed, because logic after that might revert and really not result in the destruction of this contract.

Other primitives specific to the contract type supported by `Solidity` are beased on the `type(x)` instruction (where `x` is a contract type).

The primitives supported are `type(C).name` that returns a name of the contract, `type(C).creationCode` and `type(C).runtimeCode` primitives return the creation and runtime byte codes of that contract.

These are interesting details that are best examined by writing a simple contract and looking at what these primitives return.

There's also the interface id primitive (`type(I).interfaceId`) that returns the identifier for the interface specified. We'll take a look at the differences between interfaces and contracts later on, but these are primitives that are supported by `Solidity` specific to the contract or interface type.
