# Solidity: Influence, Features & Layout

`Solidity` is a **high level language** specifically designed for writing smart contracts on Ethereum. It was proposed in 2014 by Gavin Wood and was later developed (and continues to be developed) by the Ethereum Foundation team led by Dr. Christian Reitwiessner, Alex Beregszsaszi and others.

It targets the underlying EVM and is mainly influenced by `C++` (a lot of the syntax and object oriented programming), a bit from `Python` (the use of modifiers, multiple inheritance, C3 linearization and the use of the `super` keyword) and some of the early motivation was also from `Javascript` (things like function level scoping or the use of `var` keyword, although those influences have significantly been reduced since version `0.4.0`).

One of the few alternatives to `Solidity` is `Vyper`: it's a language that is mostly based on `Python` and has just started to catch up with some of the high profile projects on Ethereum. However, to a great extent, due to the maturity of the language and the tool chains built around it, `Solidity` is by far the most widely used, so it becomes critical that in order to evaluate security of smart contracts we understand the syntax semantics, the pitfalls and various other aspects related to it.

`Solidity` is known as a "_curly bracket language_" (it means that curly brackets are used to group together statements within a particular scope), it is also an object oriented language (so there exitsts the use of inheritance), statically typed (which means that the types of variables defined are static and defined at compile time), there is code modularity in the form of libraries and there are also user defined types.

All these characteristics make `Solidity` a fully featured high level language that allows the definition of complex logic in smart contracts to leverage all the underlying features of the EVM.

*   **So, how does the physical layout of a smart contract written in `Solidity` look like?**

    This is important to the readability aspect of the file and the maintainability aspect of the smart contract in the context of the the project itself.\


    A `Solidity` source file can contain an arbitrary number of various directives and primitives. These include the `pragma` and the `import` directives, the declarations of structs, enums and contract definitions. Every contract can itself contain structures, enums, state variables, events, errors, modifiers, constructor and various functions that define the various functionalities that are implemented by the smart contract.

This physical layout is something that is specific to the syntax of `Solidity`. When it comes to helping with the readability or the maintainability, it is prime to layout all the components in the order mentioned.

This is something that you will commonly see when you evaluate smart contracts in `Solidity`. There might be cases where some of these are out of order from what is considered as best practice, but it's still something to keep in mind.
