# Inheritance

Remember that `Solidity` is an object-oriented programming language, so it supports various aspects of inheritance: multiple inheritance and polymorphism. If you have studied other object-oriented programming languages, a lot of these concepts must be familiar to you, and are very similar in `Solidity`.

Languages that allow multiple inheritance have to solve some problems. One of them is known as the **diamond problem**: this is solved in `Solidity` in a very similar way to how it is solved in `Python`, using what is known as `C3` linearization, that forces a specific order in the directed acyclic graph constructed from the base classes. At a high level, when a function is called that is defined multiple times in different contracts (in the base and derived classes) the given bases are searched in a specific order from right to left, in a depth first manner and stopping at the first match that is found. The difference between how `Solidity` implements this versus `Python` is `Solidity` searches these classes from right to left in the specified order as opposed to left to right in `Python`.

## Polymorphism 

**Polymorphism** means that a function call executes the function of the specified name and parameter types in the most derived contract in the inheritance hierarchy. When a contract inherits from multiple other contracts, only a single contract is created on the blockchain with the code from all the base contracts compiled into the created contract.

## Function Overriding

**Function overriding** means that functions in the base classes can be overridden by those in the derived classes which can change their behavior. If they are marked as virtual using the `virtual` keyword the overriding function must then use the `override` keyword to specify that it's overriding the virtual function in the base classes.

Note that virtual functions are functions without implementation. It is mandatory for them to be marked as `virtual` outside of interfaces. In interfaces all functions are automatically considered `virtual`, so they don't need to use the `virtual` keyword. However in `abstract` contracts for example, if a function has to be considered as `virtual`, that is without specifying an implementation, then it should specifically use the `virtual` keyword to indicate as such. Functions with `private` visibility can't be made `virtual`.

An interesting feature is that the overriding functions may also change the visibility of the overridden function, but this can only be done from changing them from `external` to `public`. The mutability of these functions may also be changed, but only to a more stricter one following this order:

- non-`payable` mutability can be changed to either `view` or `pure`.
- `view` mutability may be changed to `pure`.
- `payable` mutability is an exception: it can't be changed to any other mutability.

## Function Modifiers Overriding

Function modifiers can also override each other. This is very similar to how function overriding works except that there is no concept of overloading for modifiers. The `virtual` keyword again must be used on the overridden modifier and the `override` keyword must be used in the overriding modifier. Again very similar to the concept of `virtual` and `override` functions.

## Base Class Functions

When considering the inheritance hierarchy, there are base classes and then derived classes. It is possible to call functions further up in the inheritance hierarchy (e.g. the base classes) from the derived classes. If we specifically know the contract that has the function that we would like to call, then we could specify that as shown here

```solidity
Contract.function();
```

If we wanted to call the function exactly one level higher up in the flattened inheritance hierarchy, this can be done by using the `super` keyword as shown here

```solidity
super.function();
```

## Shadowing

It was supported in `Solidity` for the state variables until version `0.6.0`. This effectively allowed state variables of the same name to be used in the derived classes as they were declared in the base classes. These shadowed variables could effectively be used for purposes other than those declared in the base classes.

This was removed from version `0.6.0` onward because it caused quite a bit of confusion and potentially could lead to serious errors from a security perspective. As of the latest versions, state variable shadowing is not allowed in `Solidity`. This means that **state variables in the derived classes can only be declared if there is no visible state variable with the same name in any of its base classes**.

## Base Constructor

When you have classes deriving from other base classes, then the base and the derived classes could have constructors. The constructors of all the base contracts will be called following the linearization rules (which we touched upon earlier in the context of `Solidity`). If the base constructors have arguments, then the derived contracts need to specify those arguments. This can be done either in the inheritance list of the derived contract or it can be explicitly done, so within the derived constructor itself.

## Name Collision

Name collision is always an error in `Solidity`. It is an error when any one of the following pairs in a contract have the same name due to inheritance. A function and a modifier can't have the same names in the base and derived classes. A function and an event can't have the same name either. Finally, an event and a modifier also can't have a same name, if this happens, then this is a compile time error.

## Contract Types

Besides the typical contracts supported by `Solidity`, it also supports three other contract types that are relevant when it comes to inheritance. Those are abstract contracts, interfaces and libraries.

### Abstract Contracts

Abstract contracts are contracts where at least one of the functions in the contract is not implemented. These are specified using the `abstract` keyword.

### Interfaces

Interfaces, in contrast to abstract contracts, **can't have any of the functions implemented within them**, they can't inherit from other contracts, all the declared functions must be external, they can't declare a constructor and they can't have any state variables. These are specified using the `interface` keyword.

### Libraries. The `using for` directive.

Libraries are meant to be deployed only once at a specific address. The callers call the libraries using the `DELEGATECALL` opcode. This means that if library functions are called, their code is executed in the context of the calling contract. Libraries are specified using the `library` keyword.

Libraries in particular have several restrictions compared to typical contracts: they can't have state variables, they can't inherit from other classes or be inherited themselves, they can't receive Ether, they can't also be destroyed, they have access to state variables of the calling contract only, if they are explicitly supplied.

Library functions can only be called directly without the use of `delegatecall`, if they do not modify the state, that is, if they are `view` or `pure` functions. This is because libraries are assumed to be stateless by default.

Additionally, `Solidity` supports `using for` directive, which is used for attaching library functions to specific types in the context of a contract. So for the directive `using A for B;`, `A` specifies the library and `B` specifies a particular type.

This means that the library functions in `A` will receive objects of type `B` as their first parameter when they are called on such types. This directive is applicable only within the current contract, including within all its functions.

It has no effect outside of the contract in which it is used, so for example, if this directive is used as shown here saying `using safeMath for uint256;`, it means that variables of type `uint256` within that contract where this directive is used can be attached functions from the `SafeMath` library.

## State Variables

Remember that state variables in `Solidity` can have different visibilities. One of them is `public`. `public` state variables have automatic getter functions generated by the `Solidity` compiler. These getters are just functions that are generated to allow accessing the value of the `public` state variable, so they return the value of those state variables. Such `public` state variables can override external functions in their base classes that have the same name as the `public` state variables, parameter and return types of those `external` functions match the getter function of these variables. so while public state variables in `Solidity` can override `external` functions according to thpse, they themselves can't be overridden.