# Inline Assembly

Inline assembly is a way to access the EVM features directly at a low level, and from a security perspective this is important because it bypasses some of the safety features provided by `Solidity` at a high level language.

Type safety is one such aspect, so if a developer is manipulating in inline assembly, then the corresponding code does not enjoy the type safety benefits provided by the `Solidity` compiler. The language used by solution for inline assembly is called `Yul`. This is somewhat of a recent feature.

There have been a lot of developments in the inline assembly support by `Solidity` in the most recent versions. This sees constant updates. As you look at the most recent versions of `Solidity`, an inline assembly block is marked using the keyword `assembly{...}`. The inline assembly code is placed within the curly braces, and is specified in `Yul`.

## Assembly Access

`Yul` supports assembly access to various features such as the external variables, functions and libraries. Local variables of value type are directly usable in inline assembly, and local variables that refer to memory or calldata evaluate to the variable address and not the value itself, effectively serving as a reference.

For local storage variables or state variables that are also allocated in the storage, a single `Yul` identifier is not sufficient, because remember that storage has a concept of packing, where multiple variables can share the same storage slot and therefore their address is in two parts: it refers to the slot and the offset within the slot.

Assignments are possible to assembly language variables which allow rich manipulation of these variables within inline assembly. One should take care when manipulating in this aassembly language: one should remember that variables that point to memory or storage changed the pointer itself and not the data and, there are many other rules and restrictions as you can imagine when it comes to manipulating all these aspects within assembly as supported by `Yul`.

## `Yul` Syntax

`Yul` supports literals and calls. there are variable declarations that are possible in the form of `let x : 7` which declares a new variable `x` and assigns an initial value of `7` to it.

There are scoping blocks that are supported by `Yul`, so that multiple blocks can be considered within the assembly blocks. There is rich control flow that is supported using, `if`, `switch` and `for`.

There are also function definitions that are supported by `Yul`, so that within inline assembly you can have multiple functions that help you modularize code.

Take a look at the developments in the `Yul` language as supported by `Solidity`, this is happening at a great speed: there are a lot of features being added to provide a lot of richness and expressiveness by the `Yul` language for developers who want to code directly in assembly, but like mentioned before from a security perspective this becomes even more critical than programming in `Solidity` itself because inline assembly is typically considered as very close to the underlying virtual machine.

So in this case, very close to the EVM and, if the internals of the EVM layout and all the nuances with respect to that are not paid attention to, then coding directly in `Yul` in `Solidity`'s assembly language might result in some serious bugs where the manipulations are not done correctly and corruption happens or maybe even vulnerabilities.