# Events

Events are an abstraction that are built on top of the EVM's logging functionality. Emitting events cause the arguments that are supplied to them to be stored in what is known as the transactions log. This log is a special data structure in the blockchain associated with the address of the specific contract that created the event. This log stays there as long as that block is accessible.

The log and its event data are not accessible from within the contracts, not even from the contract that created them.  This is an interesting fact of logs in EVM: they're meant to be accessed off-chain and this is allowed using **RPC**s (**Remote Procedure Calls**). So applications, off-chain interfaces or monitoring tools can subscribe and listen to these events through the RPC interface of an Ethereum client.

From a security perspective, these events play a very significant role when it comes to auditing and logging for off-chain tools to know what the state of a contract is and monitor the state along with all the transitions that happen due to the transactions.

## Indexed Parameters in Events

Up to three parameters of every event can be specified as being indexed by using the `indexed` keyword. This causes those parameters to be stored in a special data structure known as topics instead of the data part of the log. Putting parameters into the topics part allows one to search and filter those topics in a very optimal manner.

Parameters are commonly part of some of the specifications such as the `ERC20` token standard, and the events in that standard. These indexed parameters use a little more gas than the non-indexed one but they allow for faster search and query.

## Event Emission

Events are triggered by using the `emit` keyword. Every contract would declare a certain set of events as relevant, and within the contract functions, wherever these events need to be created and stored in the log, they would be done so by using the `emit` keyword. An example would look like this

```solidity
emit Deposit(msg.sender, _id, msg.value);
```

for the above example, let's say that we have a deposit event as part of a particular contract, and we have specific parts of functions where we would want to create this event and store them in the log.

So, following the example above, we specify the event plus the arguments that are required according to the parameters of the event. These look in some way very similar to a function call, where the event corresponds to the function and the arguments that are supplied to it correspond to the event parameters.

From a security perspective, it's critical for the contract and for the developers to emit the correct event and to use the correct parameters that are required by that event.

This is something that is sometimes missed or not paid attention to because it's harder to be tested perhaps, and not critical to the control flow of the contract.

But the only way for off-chain entities, any kind of user interfaces or monitoring tools to keep track of the contract state and the transitions is by looking at these event parameters stored in the logs.