# Criticals

## ConsenSys Diligence

### 1inch

This finding was a ConsenSys Diligence audit of 1inch where it was a critical severity finding related to access control and input data validation in which anyone could steal all the funds that belong to the referral fee receiver.

For context, any token or ETH that belonged to the `feeReceiver` was at risk and could be drained by any user by providing a custom `UniswapPool` contract that referenced existing token holdings, because none of the functions in the `feeReciever` verified that the user provided `UniswapPool` address was actually deployed by the linked `UniswapFactory`.

The recommendations were:

1. To enforce that the user provided `Uniswap` contract was actually deployed by the linked factory because other contracts can't be trusted.
2. To consider implementing token sorting and deduplication in the pool contract constructor as well.
3. To consider employing a re-entrancy guard to safeguard the contract from reentrancy attacks.
4. To improve testing because the vulnerable functions were not covered at all.
5. To improve documentation and provide a specification that outlined how this contract was supposed to be used.

This is related to system specification and documentation in 136, 137 access control specification and implementation in 148, 149 and broader aspects of testing in 155 data validation issues in 169 and access control issues in 172 that we discussed in security pitfalls and best practices 201 model.

### DeFi Saver

This finding was a ConsenSys Diligence audit of the DeFi Saver protocol. It was a critical vulnerability of the reentrancy type which allowed for a random task execution in the context of the protocol. Specifically, in a scenario where a user took a flash loan, one of the functions gave the flash loan wrapper contract permission to execute functions on behalf of the users `DSProxy`.

This permission was revoked only after the entire recipe execution finished, which meant that in a case that any of the external calls along the recipe execution was malicious, it could perform a reentrancy attack by injecting any task of choice leading to users funds being transferred out or draining approved tokens.

This vulnerability was due to potential reentrancies from malicious external calls and therefore the recommendation was to add a reentrancy guard, such as the one from OpenZeppelin, where the `NonReentrant` modifiers are used on functions that may be vulnerable to reentrancies. We have discussed these aspects in [OpenZeppelin Libraries for Security](../2.Solidity/2.28\_Open\_Zeppelin\_Libraries.md#ReentrancyGuard) and [the Reentrancy Security pitfall](../3.Security\_Pitfalls\_and\_Best\_Practices/3.6\_Reentrancy.md).

### DAOFI

This finding was a ConsenSys Diligence audit of the DAOFI protocol where it was a critical severity finding in the input validation category. The finding here was that token approvals can be stolen in the `addLiquidity` function of the protocol where the function created the desired contract, if it did not already exist, then transferred tokens into the pair. However, there was no validation of the address to transfer tokens from and so, an attacker could have passed in any address with non-zero token approvals to the DAOFI V1 route. This could have been used to add liquidity to a pair contract for which the attacker was the pair Owner allowing the stolen funds to be retrieved using the `withdrawal` function.

The recommendation was to transfer tokens from `msg.sender` instead of `lp.sender`. We have discussed the importance of access control checks on correct addresses in number 148, 149, 160, 172, 180, 181 and 183 of security pitfalls and best practices 201 module, and also the importance of input validation specifically on function parameters tokens and addresses in 138 and 159 of security pitfalls and best practices 201 module.

### Fei

*   This finding was a ConsenSys Diligence audit of the Fei protocol where it was a critical severity finding in the application logic where the `GenesisGroup.commit` function overrode previously committed values. The amount stored in the recipient's `committedFGEN` balance overrode any previously committed value, including allowing anyone to commit an amount of zero to any account, deleting their commitment entirely.\


    The recommendation was to ensure that the committed amount is added to the existing commitment instead of overwriting it. This finding is related to the numerical and accounting issues we discussed in number 170 and 171 or security pitfalls and best practices 201 module and also the general challenges of detecting application specific business logic issues in number 191 of that same module.
*   Another critical severity finding from ConsenSys Diligence audit of the Fei protocol was related to the timing category. Here, purchasing and committing was still possible after launch, which meant that even after the `GenesisGroup.launch` had successfully been executed, it was still possible to invoke `GenesisGroup.purchase` and commit functions.\


    The recommendation was to consider adding validation by ensuring that these functions could not be called after launch. This finding is related to the ordering issues we discussed in number 145 and 178 and also the timing issues discussed in 143 and 177 of the security pitfalls and best practices 201 module.

### Bancor V2

This finding was a ConsenSys Diligence audit of Bancor V2 protocol where it was a critical severity finding related to the typing category. This issue was about Oracle updates that could be manipulated to arbitrage rate changes by sandwiching the Oracle update between two transactions. The attacker could send two transactions at the moment the Oracle update appeared in the mempool. The first transaction sent with a higher Gas Price than the Oracle update transaction, so as to front run it would convert a very small amount to lock in the conversion rate, so that the stale Oracle price would be used in the following transaction. The second transaction sent at a slightly lower Gas Price than the transactions that updated the Oracle, so as to back run it and effectively sandwich it would perform a large conversion at the old scale weight, add a small amount of liquidity to trigger rebalancing and then convert back at the new rate. The attacker could obtain liquidity for step two using a flash loan and use that to deplete the reserves.

The recommendation was to not allow users to trade at a stale Oracle rate and trigger an Oracle update in the same transaction. This finding is related to the transaction order dependence aspect discussed in number 21 of security pitfalls and best practices 101 module, ordering aspect discussed in number 178 and freshness aspect discussed in number 185 of the security pitfalls and best practices 201.

### Lien

This finding was a ConsenSys Diligence audit of Lien protocol where it was a critical severity finding related to denial of service, where a reverting fallback function would lock up all payouts in the context of the `transferEth` function. If any of the Ether recipients of such batch transfers were to be a smart contract that reverted, then the entire payout would fail and be unrecoverable.

The recommendation was to implement a pull-withdrawal pattern or ignore a failed transfer leaving the responsibility then up to the recipients. We have discussed denial of service in number 176 and concerns with Ether handling functions in number 158 of security pitfalls and best practices 201 module. We have discussed concerns with calls within loops leading to denial of service In number 43 oF security pitfalls and best practices 101 module. We've also reviewed OpenZeppelin's PullPayment library which specifically addresses this pull versus push aspect of Ether transfers in number 158 of `Solidity` 201 module.

### LAO protocol

*   This finding was a ConsenSys Diligence audit of LAO protocol where it was a critical severity finding related to denial of service. The issue was related to `safeRagequit()` and `ragequit()` functions used for withdrawing funds from the LAO.\


    The difference between them was that while `ragequit()` tried to withdraw all the allowed tokens, `safeRagequit()` only withdrew some subset of those tokens as defined by the user. The problem was that, even though one could quit, they would lose the remaining tokens. The tokens were not completely lost, but they would belong to the LAO and could potentially still be transferred to the user who quit. However, that required a lot of trust, coordination and time, and anyone could steal some of those tokens.\


    The recommendation was to implement a pull-pattern for token withdrawals. We have discussed denial of service in numbers 176 of security pitfalls and best practices 201 module.
*   Another critical severity finding from ConsenSys Diligence audit of the LAO protocol was again related to denial of service. The issue was that, if someone submitted a proposal and transferred some amount of tribute tokens, these tokens were transferred back if the proposal was rejected. But if the proposal was not processed before the emergency processing, these tokens would not be transferred back.\


    The proposal tokens were not completely lost, but belong to the LAO shareholders who may try to return that money back, but that required a lot of coordination and time, and everyone who `ragequit` during that time would take a part of those tokens.\


    The recommendation again was to use a pull pattern for token transfers this is again related to the derivatives of this aspect we discussed in number 176 of security pitfalls and best practices 201 module.
*   Yet another critical severity finding from ConsenSys Diligence audit of the LAO protocol was again related to denial of service. The specific issue here was that emergency processing could be blocked.\


    The rationale for emergency processing mechanism was that there was a chance that some token transfers may be blocked, and in such a scenario emergency processing would help by not transferring tribute tokens back to the user and rejecting the proposal.\


    The problem was that there was still a deposit transferred back to the sponsor that could potentially be blocked too. So if that were to happen, the proposal couldn't be processed and the allowed will be blocked.\


    The recommendation again was to use a pull-pattern for token transfers, this is again related to the denial of service aspect we discussed in number 176 of security pitfalls and best practices 201 module.

## Sigma Prime

### Infinigold

This finding was a Sigma Prime audit of Infinigold where it was a critical severity finding related to configuration, in which there was an incorrect Proxy implementation that prevented contract upgrades.

The token implementation contract initialized order, name, symbol and decimal state variables in a constructor instead of an initialize function. Therefore, when token Proxy made a `delegateCall` to token implementation, it would not be able to access any of the state variables of the token implementation contract.

Instead, the token Proxy would access its local storage which would not contain the variables set in the constructor of the token implementation contract and so, the Proxy call to the implementation was made.

Variables such as order would be uninitialized and effectively sent to their default values without access to the implementation state variables. The Proxy contract was rendered unusable.

The recommendation was:

1. To set fixed constant parameters as constants because then, the Proxy contract wouldn't need to initialize anything.
2. implement a standard Proxy implementation which uses an initialize function instead of a constructor and a few other recommendations as well.

This is related to OpenZeppelin's OZ Initializable library in number 192 and other Proxy related aspects we discussed in `Solidity` 201 module, the aspect of initializing state variables in Proxy-based upgradable contracts in number 96 of security pitfalls and best practices 101 module along with the broader aspects of configuration in 165 and initialization in 166 that we discussed in security pitfalls and best practices 201 module.

### Synthetix's Unipool

This finding was a Sigma Prime audit of Synthetix's Unipool where it was a critical severity finding related to ordering, in which the wrong order of operations led to exponentiation of reward per token stored value because reward per token stored was mistakenly used in the numerator of a fraction instead of being added to the function.

This would allow users to withdraw more funds than allocated to them or being unable to withdraw their funds at all because of insufficient SNX balance.

The recommendation was to fix the operand ordering in the expression. As expected, this is related to numerical issues of 170 and accounting issues of 171 that we discussed in the security pitfalls and best practices 201 modules.

## OpenZeppelin

### MCDEX Mai Protocol

*   This finding was a OpenZeppelin audit of MCDEX Mai protocol where it was a critical severity finding related to access control, in which anyone could liquidate on behalf of another account. For context, the perpetual contract had a public `liquidateFrom()` function that bypassed the checks in the `liquidate()` function, which meant that it could be called to liquidate a position and with any user being able to set an arbitrary `from` address would cause a third party to confiscate an undercollateralized trader's position. So effectively, this meant that any trader could unilaterally rearrange another account's position and also liquidate on behalf of the perpetual Proxy which could break down the automated market maker invariants.\


    The recommendation was to consider restricting `liquidateFrom` to `internal` visibility from `public` visibility. This is related to aspects of function visibility specifiers in number 23 of `Solidity` 101 in current access control and number four of security pitfalls and best practices 101 module and aspects of function visibility in 140 along with broader aspects of access control in 148 149 and 172 and trust issues in 181 that we discussed in security pitfalls and best practices 201 modules.
*   Another critical severity finding from OpenZeppelin audit of MCDEX Mai protocol was again related to denial of service, in which orders could not be cancelled. For context, when a user or broker called `cancelOrder()`, the `cancel` mapping was updated but that had no subsequent effects because `validateOrderParam` did not check if the order had been cancelled.\


    The recommendation was to consider adding that check to order validation to ensure that cancelled orders would not be filled. This is related to broader aspects of data validation in 169 and denial of service issues in 176 that we discussed in security pitfalls and test practices 201 module.